README.md, before:

# hexo-generator-amp

AMP ⚡ HTML (Accelerated Mobile Pages Project HTML) generator for [Hexo](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo).

## Orverview

This plugin automatically generates [AMP HTML](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/get_started/about-amp.html) pages.
Output file path is `./your-parmalink/amp/`.  Also, You can freely choose the template(.ejs) and style(.css).

###  Update Notice v1.0.3

Added `cache` option. This option improves the generation speed. Old articles will not be generated AMP HTML again. Old articles will use cache.

## DEMO

First of all, please see the examples. The following is my hexo blog.

- [HTML page](https://tea3.github.io/p/hexo-markdown-notation/) 
- [AMP HTML page (generated by this plugin) ](https://tea3.github.io/p/hexo-markdown-notation/amp/#development=1)

## Installation

``` bash
$ npm install hexo-generator-amp --save
```

## Usage

### 1. Edit your theme

First, add the following in your template files. For example , Please edit `themes/(your-theme)/layout/_partial/head.ejs`.

``` ejs
  <% if (is_post() && config.generator_amp){ %>
    <link rel="amphtml" href="./amp/index.html">
  <% } %>
```

Please refer follow as about how to use this plugin with based other templates.

- [jade](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/13)
- [swig](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/14)


### 2. Add your config file

Please set the following options. Please edit `_config.yml`.

``` yaml
# The following settings is the quick start options.
generator_amp:
  templateDir:  amp-template
  assetDistDir: amp-dist
  logo:
    path:   sample/sample-logo.png
    width:  600
    height: 60
  substituteTitleImage: 
    path:   sample/sample-substituteTitleImage.png
    width:  1024
    height: 800
  warningLog: false   # If you want to validate, please set true.
```

### 3. Run server

Starts a local server. By default, this is at `http://localhost:4000/`.

``` bash
$ hexo server
```

If occured plugin error , Please refer [#17](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/17) and [other issue](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed) .

### 4. Validate AMP Pages

This plugin generated the AMP HTML. Output file path is `./your-parmalink/amp/`. 

Now validate your AMP pages. Open your AMP page in your browser. Open the Chrome DevTools console and check for validation errors. Please Append `http://localhost:4000/your-parmalink/amp/#development=1` to the URL. Please see below for the details.

> Accelerated Mobile Pages Project - [Validate AMP Pages](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/validate.html)

> How to validate AMP - [my blog](https://tea3.github.io/p/how-to-validate-amp/) (Japanese)


## Options

This plugin can set the following options. Please edit `_config.yml`.

``` yaml
# Advanced Settings of hexo-amp-generator
generator_amp:
  
  # 1. Google Adsense option
  substituteGoogle_adsense:                   #(optional)
    data_ad_client: ca-pub-123456789876543    #(optional)
    data_ad_slot:   0123456789                #(optional)
    width:  336                               #(optional)
    height: 280                               #(optional)
  
  # 2. Template Option
  templateDir:  amp-template
  assetDistDir: amp-dist
  logo:
    path:   sample/sample-logo.png
    width:  600 # width <= 600px
    height: 60  # width <= 60px
  logo_topImage:                              #(optional)
    path:   sample/sample-yoursite-logo.png   #(optional)
    width:  1024                              #(optional)
    height: 400                               #(optional)
  substituteTitleImage: 
    path:   sample/sample-substituteTitleImage.png
    width:  1024 # width >= 696px
    height: 800
  cssFilePath:      sample/sample-amp.css     #(optional)
  templateFilePath: sample/sample-amp.ejs     #(optional)
  
  # 3. Google Analytics Option
  google_analytics: UA-123456789-1            #(optional)
  
  # 4. Minify Option
  html_minifier:                              #(optional)
  
  # 5. Log Option
  warningLog: true                            #(optional)
  
  # 6. Cache Option
  cache: hexo-generator-amp-cached.json       #(optional)
  # onlyForDeploy: false                      #(optional) #Deprecated <= v1.0.3

# 7. Footer Option (authorDetail)
authorDetail:
  authorReading: Your name description        #(optional)
  avatar:                                     #(optional)
    path:   sample/sample-avator.png          #(optional)
    width:  150                               #(optional)
    height: 150                               #(optional)
  description: Self introduction              #(optional)
copyright_notice: The footer copyright notice #(optional)
```


### A description of the options

Option can use as follows.

#### 1. Google Adsense Option

If an advertisement is found in an article, it will be converted to AMP specification.

Adout Google Adsense , please see [Create an AMP ad unit](https://support.google.com/adsense/answer/7183212?hl=en) for the details.

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
| data_ad_client | substitute data_ad_client id |
| data_ad_slot | substitute data_ad_slot id |
| width | substitute ad width |
| height | substitute ad height |

#### 2. Template Option

##### templateDir & assetDistDir

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**templateDir**|File path of a your AMP template files.|
|**assetDistDir**|File path of a your public AMP Assets.|

##### `logo`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**path**|File path of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image.|
|**width**|Width of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image. ([width <= 600px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#logo_guidelines))|
|**height**|Height of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image. ([height <= 60px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#logo_guidelines))|

##### `logo_topImage`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|path|File path of a your site logo image.|
|width|Width of a your site logo image.|
|height|Height of a your site logo image.|

##### `substituteTitleImage`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**path**|File path of a your substitute title image. (Use this when the image is not in the markdown)|
|**width**|Width of a your substitute title image. ([width >= 696px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#markup_specification))|
|**height**|Height of a your substitute title image.|

##### cssFilePath & templateFilePath

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|cssFilePath|File path of a your css file for AMP. (e.g. ./sample-amp.css) [It is a validation error if the author stylesheet is larger than 50,000 bytes.](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-format.md#maximum-size)|
|templateFilePath|File path of a your template file for AMP. (e.g. ./sample-amp.ejs)|


#### 3. Google Analytics Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|google_analytics|Your google analytics tracking ID.|

#### 4. Minify Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|html_minifier|Enabled html_minifier. Please see [kangax/html-minifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier) for the details.|

#### 5. Log Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|warningLog|Enabled warnings.|

#### 6. Cache Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|cache|This option improves the generation speed. Old articles will not be generated AMP HTML again. Old articles will use cache.|

#### 7. Footer Option (authorDetail)

##### `authorReading`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|authorReading|Your name description.|

##### `avatar`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|path|File path of a your avator image.|
|width|Width of a your avator image.|
|height|Height of a your avator image.|

##### `description`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|description|Self introduction.|

##### `copyright_notice`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|copyright_notice|The footer copyright notice.|




## Front-matter option.


### ampSettings.titleImage.path (optional)
You can choose path of schema.org image on a per post. If your post is not contain this option , this plugin search image from content. 

For example : `hello-world.md` , Please set the following options.

``` markdown
---
title: Hello World
ampSettings: 
 titleImage:
   path: titleImage-on-the-local-folder.png
---

Welcome to [Hexo](https://hexo.io/)! This is your very first post. 
...

```

If image on the external , Please set the width and height options.

``` markdown
---
title: Hello World
ampSettings: 
 titleImage:
   path: http://titleImage-on-the-external.png
   width: 1024
   height: 800
---

Welcome to [Hexo](https://hexo.io/)! This is your very first post. 
...

```

## Supports external services

Supports the following external services.

- [Twitter](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/twitter.amp.html)
- [Youtube](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/youtube.amp.html)
- [Vimeo](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/vimeo.amp.html)
- [Instagram](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/instagram.amp.html)


## License

MIT

[Hexo]: http://hexo.io/

Commit message:

Added Internal AMP Validation (Auto Validation Function).

README.md, after:

# hexo-generator-amp

AMP ⚡ HTML (Accelerated Mobile Pages Project HTML) generator for [Hexo](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo).

## Orverview

This plugin automatically generates [AMP HTML](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/get_started/about-amp.html) pages.
Output file path is `./your-parmalink/amp/`.  Also, You can freely choose the template(.ejs) and style(.css).

![Screenshot](src/img/hexo2amp.png)

###  Update Notice v1.0.3

Added `cache` option. This option improves the generation speed. Old articles will not be generated AMP HTML again. Old articles will use cache.

## DEMO

First of all, please see the examples. The following is my hexo blog.

- [HTML page](https://tea3.github.io/p/hexo-markdown-notation/) 
- [AMP HTML page (generated by this plugin) ](https://tea3.github.io/p/hexo-markdown-notation/amp/#development=1)

## Installation

``` bash
$ npm install hexo-generator-amp --save
```

## Usage

### 1. Edit your theme

First, add the following in your template files. For example , Please edit `themes/(your-theme)/layout/_partial/head.ejs`.

``` ejs
  <% if (is_post() && config.generator_amp){ %>
    <link rel="amphtml" href="./amp/index.html">
  <% } %>
```

Please refer follow as about how to use this plugin with based other templates.

- [jade](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/13)
- [swig](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/14)


### 2. Add your config file

Please set the following options. Please edit `_config.yml`.

``` yaml
# The following settings is the quick start options.
generator_amp:
  templateDir:  amp-template
  assetDistDir: amp-dist
  logo:
    path:   sample/sample-logo.png
    width:  600
    height: 60
  substituteTitleImage: 
    path:   sample/sample-substituteTitleImage.png
    width:  1024
    height: 800
  warningLog: false   # If you want to validate, please set true.
```

### 3. Run server

Starts a local server. By default, this is at `http://localhost:4000/`.

``` bash
$ hexo server
```

If occured plugin error , Please refer [#17](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues/17) and [other issue](https://github.com/tea3/hexo-generator-amp/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed) .

### 4. Validate AMP Pages

This plugin generated the AMP HTML. Output file path is `./your-parmalink/amp/`. 

Now validate your AMP pages. Open your AMP page in your browser. Open the Chrome DevTools console and check for validation errors. Please Append `http://localhost:4000/your-parmalink/amp/#development=1` to the URL. Please see below for the details.

> Accelerated Mobile Pages Project - [Validate AMP Pages](https://www.ampproject.org/docs/guides/validate.html)

> How to validate AMP - [my blog](https://tea3.github.io/p/how-to-validate-amp/) (Japanese)

#### Internal validation (Auto AMP Validation)

If you want to use [AMP Validator](https://validator.ampproject.org/) in this plugin , please change the `warningLog: true`. 

``` yaml
# If you want to use AMP Validation , please edit _config.yml.
generator_amp:
  warningLog: true   # If you want to validate, please set true.
```

For example , if occur the AMP validation error , this plugin displaying following error message .

![ValidationAmp](src/img/ampvalid.png)

## Options

This plugin can set the following options. Please edit `_config.yml`.

``` yaml
# Advanced Settings of hexo-amp-generator
generator_amp:
  
  # 1. Google Adsense option
  substituteGoogle_adsense:                   #(optional)
    data_ad_client: ca-pub-123456789876543    #(optional)
    data_ad_slot:   0123456789                #(optional)
    width:  336                               #(optional)
    height: 280                               #(optional)
  
  # 2. Template Option
  templateDir:  amp-template
  assetDistDir: amp-dist
  logo:
    path:   sample/sample-logo.png
    width:  600 # width <= 600px
    height: 60  # width <= 60px
  logo_topImage:                              #(optional)
    path:   sample/sample-yoursite-logo.png   #(optional)
    width:  1024                              #(optional)
    height: 400                               #(optional)
  substituteTitleImage: 
    path:   sample/sample-substituteTitleImage.png
    width:  1024 # width >= 696px
    height: 800
  cssFilePath:      sample/sample-amp.css     #(optional)
  templateFilePath: sample/sample-amp.ejs     #(optional)
  
  # 3. Google Analytics Option
  google_analytics: UA-123456789-1            #(optional)
  
  # 4. Minify Option
  html_minifier:                              #(optional)
  
  # 5. Log Option
  warningLog: true                            #(optional)
  
  # 6. Cache Option
  cache: hexo-generator-amp-cached.json       #(optional)
  # onlyForDeploy: false                      #(optional) #Deprecated <= v1.0.3

# 7. Footer Option (authorDetail)
authorDetail:
  authorReading: Your name description        #(optional)
  avatar:                                     #(optional)
    path:   sample/sample-avator.png          #(optional)
    width:  150                               #(optional)
    height: 150                               #(optional)
  description: Self introduction              #(optional)
copyright_notice: The footer copyright notice #(optional)
```


### A description of the options

Option can use as follows.

#### 1. Google Adsense Option

If an advertisement is found in an article, it will be converted to AMP specification.

Adout Google Adsense , please see [Create an AMP ad unit](https://support.google.com/adsense/answer/7183212?hl=en) for the details.

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
| data_ad_client | substitute data_ad_client id |
| data_ad_slot | substitute data_ad_slot id |
| width | substitute ad width |
| height | substitute ad height |

#### 2. Template Option

##### templateDir & assetDistDir

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**templateDir**|File path of a your AMP template files.|
|**assetDistDir**|File path of a your public AMP Assets.|

##### `logo`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**path**|File path of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image.|
|**width**|Width of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image. ([width <= 600px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#logo_guidelines))|
|**height**|Height of a your logo (schema.org logo for AMP) image. ([height <= 60px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#logo_guidelines))|

##### `logo_topImage`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|path|File path of a your site logo image.|
|width|Width of a your site logo image.|
|height|Height of a your site logo image.|

##### `substituteTitleImage`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|**path**|File path of a your substitute title image. (Use this when the image is not in the markdown)|
|**width**|Width of a your substitute title image. ([width >= 696px](https://developers.google.com/structured-data/carousels/top-stories#markup_specification))|
|**height**|Height of a your substitute title image.|

##### cssFilePath & templateFilePath

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|cssFilePath|File path of a your css file for AMP. (e.g. ./sample-amp.css) [It is a validation error if the author stylesheet is larger than 50,000 bytes.](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/spec/amp-html-format.md#maximum-size)|
|templateFilePath|File path of a your template file for AMP. (e.g. ./sample-amp.ejs)|


#### 3. Google Analytics Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|google_analytics|Your google analytics tracking ID.|

#### 4. Minify Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|html_minifier|Enabled html_minifier. Please see [kangax/html-minifier](https://github.com/kangax/html-minifier) for the details.|

#### 5. Log Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|warningLog|Enabled warnings.|

#### 6. Cache Option

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|cache|This option improves the generation speed. Old articles will not be generated AMP HTML again. Old articles will use cache.|

#### 7. Footer Option (authorDetail)

##### `authorReading`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|authorReading|Your name description.|

##### `avatar`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|path|File path of a your avator image.|
|width|Width of a your avator image.|
|height|Height of a your avator image.|

##### `description`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|description|Self introduction.|

##### `copyright_notice`

| option | description |
| :---: | :--- |
|copyright_notice|The footer copyright notice.|




## Front-matter option.


### ampSettings.titleImage.path (optional)
You can choose path of schema.org image on a per post. If your post is not contain this option , this plugin search image from content. 

For example : `hello-world.md` , Please set the following options.

``` markdown
---
title: Hello World
ampSettings: 
 titleImage:
   path: titleImage-on-the-local-folder.png
---

Welcome to [Hexo](https://hexo.io/)! This is your very first post. 
...

```

If image on the external , Please set the width and height options.

``` markdown
---
title: Hello World
ampSettings: 
 titleImage:
   path: http://titleImage-on-the-external.png
   width: 1024
   height: 800
---

Welcome to [Hexo](https://hexo.io/)! This is your very first post. 
...

```

## Supports external services

Supports the following external services.

- [Twitter](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/twitter.amp.html)
- [Youtube](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/youtube.amp.html)
- [Vimeo](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/vimeo.amp.html)
- [Instagram](https://github.com/ampproject/amphtml/blob/master/examples/instagram.amp.html)


## License

MIT

[Hexo]: http://hexo.io/
